Let's move on to the project grid.
Something that we see a lot of in websites whether
it's an image gallery or a list of your portfolio
projects.
Grid systems are very
important and very common.
And as we know we learned the perfect
way to create a grid CSS grid, right.
So let's see how this will look like.
And my ideal implementation.
First I want to go to the HTML page and
now let's make this a little bit bigger.
In our project grid div I know I want to use CSS grid
so I'm going to create a wrapper around this project
grid so I'm going to have a div
and this div will have a class of some properties
that we'll add CSS to and just to keep things blue
the way they are.
I'm going to give it that zone blue class that we
have below but we're going to make it a CSS grid
song going to just say grid-wrapper.
And we can just remove the project grid.
And in here add a couple
of sample little projects.
If you remember in our solution file I left for you
a couple of images that you can just add like this
so that we have some
sort of a project grid.
I'm not going to bore you with me typing all that out
because that's something that we've done before.
Just gonna copy and paste a div here with box zone
boxes are classes that we haven't added yet but we're
going to create these are going to be the grid items
we have zone which again is something that we've
already defined before and our images.
So if I save this and refresh
and let's refresh again.
All right.
This is absolutely hideous does not look pretty at
all but at least we have the images provide it but
no employer is going to be
impressed if they see this right.
So let's actually make
this into a grid system.
If we go back to the style tab let's add our grid
here and obviously as the name suggests when it comes
to grids CSS grids is the way to go.
And there's many ways that we can lay things out and
that's something that we've already talked about
in our CSS grid videos.
So we're going to keep things simple.
First is we want to actually say
hey we're going to use CSS grid.
So we're going to use the grid-wrapper class that we
created which was this div that wraps all our projects
and we'll say display grid we'll say that we want
the grid-gap to be 20px and then finally the our
favorite property that is grid-template-columns
and so everything is responsive.
We'll say repeat auto-fill and we'll say
that the minmax will be let's say 350px.
So that is the minimum and the maximum will be '1fr'
so that it fills the entire page when it's really
really small.
So that if I save this and refresh. All right.
That still looks pretty hideous doesn't it.
And that's because our images are well they're
pretty massive and you see that they're also not all
the same size or they
have different padding.
So the way to just fix that quickly and something
that you'll see a lot with images is to give them
a width of 100 percent in our case that we can just
say box because remember each div has a box class
that we haven't really said anything about.
And then an image.
So using our CSS selector knowledge I can just say
all children of box that are images I want the
width to be 100 percent.
If I save and refresh.
All right.
That's perfect.
Now you see that each image has 100 percent width
that as it fills in the entire piece of the card.
And if I make this bigger and smaller you see that
it adjusts very very cool but still pretty ugly.
But we have the CSS grid
working as you can see.
As soon as it's less than 350px
it changes the grid system.
So next we want to work
on the individual cards.
That is we want to have our box and here we don't
really need to add any extra grid properties.
I mean we could if we want but I like the way
things look I like everything being symmetrical.
I want all the items in
the grid to be the same.
So in here we can just add our simple CSS properties
like let's say background color and we'll just
give it a color of let's say '#444' so that we
have this dark color and we definitely don't
want these images just to be this big.
So we'll give it a padding of 130px
and maybe some margin as well of 20px.
If I save and refresh that's a lot better.
And remember because we said that the
width of the image is 100 percent.
It's going to try and fill the entire box.
But because the box now has padding of 130 both the
top the bottom and to the left and right the width
is now just this part.
So that looks a lot better.
And if we look over here we now
have a completely responsive
grid system.
How cool is that!
And how simple was that using CSS grid.
Luckily for us the last thing
we need to do is this footer.
And because the footer is at the very bottom
it just going to stay at the very bottom.
The only thing that we might want to do is to make
sure that the text is centered so in our case we
can just say footer and as you guessed.
Yes it's text-align.
Our best friend.
Center. If I refresh and make sure that
I spelled properly if I save and refresh.
Well that's not going to work because we should
change our footer which is div to more of a semantic
a HTML tag of footer.
Now if I save and refresh this
is in the center it looks great.
Let's say zero to mastery because
our layout is looking really nice.
And there you have it.
That wasn't that bad, was it?
I mean sure.
The first time around that's kind of difficult but the
principles that I've showed you here can be transferred
to a lot of websites.
I mean this looks pretty ugly.
You're not going to want to visit a website that looks
like this but when it comes to layout everything
is responsive and nice, right?
And you can imagine yourself expanding
on this and building a beautiful website.
I wanted to show you this layout system because this
is what I would use if I was building a website.
I would start off with the HTML and
create the layout that is responsive.
Because after this all I really need
to do is add text, images and colors.
Maybe some CSS styles to make it pretty
so that you can turn something like this.
That doesn't look good but has the layout implemented
into something like this which I mean doesn't
look that great yet but in the next video I want
to show you how because we have the layouts set up
we can convert our base layout
project into something like this.
And less than five minutes.
So let's do that in the next video.